[startled yells]
Head back to
the stairs. Hurry!
[falling yells]
Is everyone all right?
Fine.
I think I'm okay.
Well, that's good.
Now we have another
problem, don't we?
Our ten hours are already up.
We're going to have to find
our way back to the surface.
No, Queen Flora. I think
we should keep going.
Huh?
Seriously?
Think about it.
We don't know how
far down we've fallen...
We can't know if we'll make
it out of here in time.
So let's take our chances
and find the Kaglimmer.
If we don't find it,
we'll have even less time
to reach the surface.
And if we do, then it
changes everything.
We could use our Insignias...
And boost the Kaglimmer's effect
to fight the cave's Malice.
Then Queen Flora can cast her
Evac spell and we'll escape.
It would still take
nothing short of a miracle
for that whole plan to work.
We want to defeat
King Vearn...
and doing that is
going to take
an even bigger
miracle than this.
So, why don't we
get some practice
and pull off a
smaller miracle first?
There's no time to fight.
Let's get moving.
Come on, everybody.
We can do this!
Flora: Right!
Yes!
Flora [thought]:
Such a strong will...
I'm glad I was right
about you, Leona.
With a clear head,
your words have the power to
inspire others and
give them strength-
and that's exactly
why I chose you.
Ten hours left...
If we stay focused, I know
we can find the spell.
Avan... Strash!
[roaring]
Excellent!
You've learned how to unleash
a rapid-fire assault with
the Arrow Type.
It is powerful...
But I still don't
think it'll be enough to
counter Vearn's
Kaiser Phoenix.
Last time we fought,
I barely pierced it using
the Break-Type Strash,
and it's more powerful
than the Arrow-Type.
Now that I don't
have my sword,
I can't amplify attacks with
my Draconic Aura like before.
So if I want to beat him,
I need an attack that's
as fast as the Arrow-Type,
and as powerful
as the Break-Type.
What is it?
Dai: Nova, stand right
there, okay? Get ready.
I think I might have invented
a brand-new attack just now!
A new one? Is that possible?
C'mon. Are you
telling me there's
a third type of Avan Strash
that's not in the book?
Dai: It's nothing
that impressive...
But I want to try.
Now conjure your Aura Blade
at full power, got it?
Uh... I guess so.
Bring it on.
Nova [thought]:
That looks exactly like
the stance he was
already using.
But, wait...
Dai: Here we go!
Are you out of your mind?
If I hadn't reinforced
my weapon with Aura,
that would've taken my
head clean off!
Sorry... My bad.
But it really works!
It's only a small
part of our arsenal,
but we've got a
totally new power.
Nova: "A small part"?
That's ridiculous.
If you ask me, you've
just created an attack
that'll blow the
others out of the water.
That was incredible.
Yeah? You think so?
You never cease to amaze.
I cannot believe I used
to think I could rival you.
[chuckling]
It's not that great.
And besides, my timing
is still way off.
For now...
So let's keep training.
Here it comes -
watch your head!
[charing roar]
Flora: This must be
the twenty-fifth level.
The Kaglimmer will
be in this chamber-
prepare yourself, Leona.
I sense a strange power...
coming from that
platform in the middle.
Flora: The ritual altar,
where the spell resides.
So I just pray in here?
Flora: That's right.
You should wear your Insignia.
Okay, um...
Here goes.
Flora: Are you ready?
Yes.
Merle: Monsters
are closing in.
Well, well. What a surprise.
Princess...
The three of us will
handle the monsters.
Focus on the ritual.
Right!
Here they come.
[roaring]
[chuckling]
Come on!
Maam, there's more!
[snarling]
Maam: Now this is
a welcoming party.
Merle: Why are there
so many monsters
living in a cave built
by the God of Humanity?
According to
the ancient texts,
the Sage who explored
the area believed that
the lowest level of
the Cave of Trials...
connects right to
the Underworld.
Maam: You're not
getting any closer!
Leona, hurry.
The Ritual of
Inheritance has begun.
Hear me... Great
God of Humanity...
and allow me to wield
this legendary spell-
this unparalleled
word of strength,
imbued with all of
your holy power...
Now, Kaglimmer!
[screaming]
Leona!
It's burning her!
We mustn't stop her now -
it's not real fire.
Flora: It's pure spiritual
energy... a flame of the soul.
Merle: You mean...
it's an illusion?
-Flora: No, it's real.
-Leona: [agonized cry]
This must be some sort of test
left by the God of Humanity.
If Leona's
spirit is unworthy of
the Kaglimmer spell...
These flames will incinerate
her, to "purify" the altar.
Oh, no.
Don't give up!
Stand strong, Leona.
I know that your
soul is pure.
God of Humans: You who seek
the Kaglimmer spell...
Present your soul and
prove you are worthy.
My soul... What do you mean?
God of Humans: The Great
Purification spell
requires a user with
an unblemished spirit.
Tell me, is your soul pure?
Do you have a purpose
worthy of wielding
such great power?
I don't know if
I have an answer...
It's a difficult
question, mighty lord.
'Cause deep down...
There's only one reason
I can offer for seeking
the spell's power.
It's that in my heart I know.
In the world where
I was born... My home.
That my people - they need
my help now more than ever!
Leona: I don't want
this power for myself,
but I must prove that
everything we've fought for...
And the privileges
we've inherited-
that we still
earned our place here.
I need this power.
So, please!
The flames are lifting!
That light...
W-What is that light?
That is her desire... to seek
out justice and find truth.
That is Leona's essence.
We're witnessing
the light of her soul.
Everyone, come here
and join hands.
Kaglimmer!
A pillar of light!
What is that?
It must be Leona.
She really did it!
Let's head back.
Popp: Donk!
It's no use.
No matter how much
Magic Power I put into it...
I punish myself...
No matter what I try...
I just can't make it glow.
[defeated chuckle]
Well, that settles it.
Avan made a mistake
when he chose me.
Dai's father was
a Dragon Knight...
Leona is the
Princess of Papnica...
Maam's parents were
the Warrior and Cleric
in Master Avan's own party...
[sniffling]
And Hyunckel's a swordsman
who's been training
ever since he was a kid...
Taught by good and evil.
Then there's me.
I'm the only one
that's different.
I'm just...
just... normal.
Matoriv: Will you
spit it out, Popp?
Don't just sit there moping.
I mean, it's
pretty obvious that
you came here
looking for advice.
So, what is it?
Well, I...
Just forget it.
You may be my mentor,
but this is... well...
Is the word you're
looking for "pointless"?
How am I supposed
to give advice
when you won't
even talk, huh?
It's not as if
I'm a Seer, you know.
Popp: Yes, I know.
But I also know
that your advice
won't fix what's
troubling me...
So like I said,
just forget it.
I guess... This is
my own problem to solve.
Although...
I'm almost certain
there's nothing I can
do about it, either.
I'm an unimportant
son of a blacksmith,
and it seems like
I've finally hit a wall
that I can't climb over.
I guess that's it.
End of story.
Useless. And what's more...
I don't want to become
a colossal burden
on everybody else.
And I... I don't know
what to do anymore, okay?!
That is why I'm here.
Do you have any advice?
Matoriv: [laughing]
Sorry, kid. I'm actually
a little bit flattered.
Y-you're... what?
Listen up.
I have no idea what it is
you're going through...
But to see the useless
little brat I trained
finally shake off
the wet behind his ears
and reach this level
after all this time?
Well, it makes me happy
and sad at the same time.
It's a strange sensation-
like I'm all tingly inside.
Never had a wife or a kid,
but I suspect this is what it
must feel like to be a parent.
Popp: Mentor...
Matoriv: To tell you
the very strange truth,
now that I've
taught you Medroa,
you've probably
surpassed me in combat.
If there was such a thing
as an Insignia of Matoriv,
I'd have given
it to you ages ago.
[amused laughter]
What now?
Popp: It's nothing.
Sorry for whining
like that, Mentor.
I'll... I'll go
figure this out myself.
Before you leave...
There's one more thing.
This is the last piece
of advice I have for you.
Popp [thought]: "The last"?
Believe in yourself.
Popp [thought]:
What's there to believe in?
Matoriv: If you were
just some spoiled brat,
you never would
have made it this far.
It's because you're
an "unimportant
son of a blacksmith"
that you looked up
to Avan so much,
and struggled harder
than anybody else.
Give yourself some credit.
You're stronger
than you think.
And I'm so very proud...
That you were
my humble student.
[sniffling]
Matoriv: Believe it or not,
I'm pretty sure I do know what
you're going through, Popp.
Matoriv [thought]:
Make no mistake,
this will probably be the
biggest hurdle of your life.
But... if you can figure
out how to overcome it...
There's a good chance
you'll make it
further than I ever did-
and I hope I'm around
when that day comes.
[coughing]
Flora: We have successfully
attained the great
Kaglimmer spell!
[excited cheering]
Flora: Now, we must
proceed with our plan
to rescue Hyunckel
and Crocodine,
after which the Hero's
party shall infiltrate
Vearn Palace together.
[cheering]
Popp [thought]: The Princess
made it back safely, huh?
I knew you could
do it, Leona!
It was actually pretty easy.
Am I right, ladies?
[uneasy chuckles]
Now that you've proven
your soul is worthy,
the Mysticite in your
Insignia of Avan
should glow just
like the others.
Great!
Popp [thought]: Hear that?
Leona's a royal princess and
even she's giving it her all.
I can't give up.
I'll push myself harder
than ever before!
How about you, Dai?
Did all of your extra
training go well?
Better than we ever
could have expected-
Dai here invented
a new attack
without even
breaking a sweat.
Leona: Wow, that's amazing!
[bashful chuckle]
Dai: Now all I need is
a sword that's able to
channel my Draconic Aura.
I see. Now if only we
still had the Sword of Dai.
Your Majesty! We got trouble.
A Darkling has just been
spotted approaching the Fort!
What? Is it Lord Hadlar?!
Hold on!
That Darkling's not an enemy.
This is a rather
hostile welcome.
Baduck: Indeed!
I say we turn around
if this is the kinda
thanks we're gonna get!
Hey there, you guys!
At ease! Out of
the way, you fools.
Ah, Princess.
Why aren't you a
sight for sore eyes.
[giggling]
The Dark King used
the staff, didn't he?
Yeah. The Staff of Edacity.
Is it true? Did you
really make that thing?
I did. And with
such a weapon in hand,
Vearn is truly unstoppable.
In even combat, I doubt you
stand a chance against him.
It's simply too powerful.
That's why I'm here.
Speaking of, how did you
manage to find us out here?
Your friend gave
me directions.
Wait a minute!
You mean - that's...
Lon Beruk: The one and only.
It returned to me
after we lost you,
along with Hyunckel's
Dark Armor Spear.
Both of these weapons sought
me out because they sensed
they would require more
power for the battle ahead...
So gladly I
heeded their plea.
I present... the newly
reborn, mighty Sword of Dai.
May I draw it, sir?
You will have
to ask it yourself.
Dai [thought]: You feel
even stronger than before.
I sure have missed having you.
What do you say, my friend?
Ready for another fight?
Narrator: With an
all new attack
and his blade fortified
thanks to Lon Beruk,
Dai's hope of defeating
King Vearn is renewed.
But while the
Hero's morale is high,
Maam and Amy find
themselves at odds,
and Popp continues to
struggle with unleashing
the power of his Insignia.
As the battle draws near,
tensions reach a fever pitch,
and there's no telling
who will explode...
So don't miss
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Night Before the Battle".